---
title: "Mathematical foundations of antibody aﬃnity maturation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2016-01-01-2016-1
#excerpt: 'PhD Thesis manuscript.'
date: 2016-01-01
authors: 'Balelli, I.'
notvenue: 'Hal'
#paperurl: 'http://irenebalelli.github.io/files/papers/Irene_Balelli_these.pdf'
#citation: 'Balelli, I. (2016). Mathematical foundations of antibody aﬃnity maturation (Doctoral dissertation, Université Sorbonne Paris Cité).'
---
<b>PhD Thesis manuscript. Supervisors: Milišić, V., Wainrib, G., Zaag, H.</b> Antibody affinity maturation is a key process in adaptive immunity : it is a mechanism which allows B-cells to produce high affinity antibodies against a specific antigen. We developed and studied a mathematical framework which allows to pattern the learning process to whom B-lymphocytes are submitted during an immune response. In particular, we model antibody traits as N-length binary strings. Antibody-antigen affinity is naturally characterized using the Hamming distance: therefore the N-dimensional hypercube vertex set defines the affinity landscape of B-cell traits. Our aim is to propose and analyze a mathematical model of the division-mutation-selection process of B-cells during an immune response. Besides the biological motivations, the analysis of this learning process brought us to build a mathematical model which could be relevant to model other evolutionary systems, but also gossip or virus propagation. Our method is based on the complementarity between probabilistic tools and numerical simulations.

[Download paper here](http://irenebalelli.github.io/files/papers/Irene_Balelli_these.pdf)

Recommended citation: Balelli, I. (2016). Mathematical foundations of antibody aﬃnity maturation (Doctoral dissertation, Université Sorbonne Paris Cité).